---
created: 2026-07-16
basis: primary-source
tags:
---

# Calling

Following my resignation to Schwab. I strongly and deeply sensed something is very different. That I am not going back. Back to Schwab for sure. Back to employment as well, as I could best interpret. 

After maybe three weeks in met a software Engineer who introduced me to AI-Obsidian, helped me get it set up with necessary plugins I could not have done myself or would have had a very difficult time with.  I immediately thought what do I want to do with this?  What do I see in my life as an undeniable theme that I can bring to the world of people? Who do I want to be for this world? My answer: A skilled, biblically informed Life Coach who equips the saints for the the work of Christ. To do this believed I needed to resolve the gap of the client need for therapy as a non-clinically trained life coach. I set out to start a trauma informed coaching business and began to learn about coach-safe (non clinical skilled therapy for coaching).  I spent a month or so creating documentation that would work as structure, session tools, etc. for the coaching practice.

I then met an owner of a chain of hotels who mentioned his employee problem that worsened post COVID. I re-explained to him his employee problem in a more accurate way, as a leadership problem. He strongly thanked me for helping him understand a more accurate perspective of his problem, and agreed to keep me up to date on how he decided to move forward with resolving the issue. I sensed this was adjacent work to what I was working on and spent the next 6 weeks researching how to help him solve his problem and came up with Relationship Performance Advisory, RPA.  The necessary depth to provide this service required corporate psychology expertise, executive coaching, advisory navigation and leadership I currently don't have.  He agreed to meet then rescheduled then did not respond.

Grateful for deepening my understanding that management requires similar work to become effective 'formed' leaders able to create psychologically safe work cultures forming employees rather than blame and react. I then set out to answer a profound longstanding question, seemingly unrelated to the previous work. What is a biblical perspective on assembling together, and what is true of the early church that is not true of church today? I know we gather in attendance today in perpetuity which leaves me in want. I discovered the early church Assembled as a formative group, temporary for sending out. Formative resonates deeply. I also discovered the only way they could live out the "One Another's," loving each other such that the onlooking world of people see they are God's disciples for their love for one another. And that the believers must spend 2-3 years preparing to be in the Assembly so that they become mature enough to show up contributing rather than reacting. Which leads back to the skills of Covenant Identity Coaching as containing potentially major contribution to people becoming 'formed' and further, being able to lead formative groups in an assembly of the saints beyond that of a gaggle of unformed believers who are naturally in need of sanctification and can be destructive to a loving assembly, and for sure when under stress. Turns out RPA reflects a similar need as a formative practitioner for the body of Christ.

I then met a Professional Christian Life Coach at another coffee shop. He provided encouragement and modeled for me Christ's authenticity, vulnerability, no judgement, friendly, pursuit, presence.

Business owner finds my wife and offers her a perfect job, part time allowing her to home school doing peaceful work with decent pay. 

I know God works in mysterious ways. In holding this loosely, I can only imagine the parallels being providential. In feeling the need for RPA and a biblical Assembly model, this only strengthened my resolve for brining Covenant Identity Coaching CIC to the world of Marketplace and 'Church.' I returned to refining CIC, internalizing, practicing speaking in private about it, while practicing the disciplines of coaching. I am committed to this in the face of obstacles. Seems like a long game at a prophetic time that could be so very short. My relationships are unmaintained due to years focused on raising a family and fulltime work.  I have persevered past several times of heavy fear and self condemnation, therefore created conditions for the Holy Spirit to work, self-addressing my wounds with CIC tools & prayer. I shifted out from the weight of this as a result. My wife and I see the need for me to do my own therapeutic work and am holding off due to funding needs.  She is supportive thinking I could use formal training. I am planning on MI training. She is prayerful and logically thinks I should obtain income if it includes getting a job to help pay the bills. We have time.  I can question the calling not having heard from the Lord as clearly as I once had in the past. Yet I know The Lord works and speaks in His own ways in His timing.  I feel only so equipped, yet I know this model is simply creating the conditions, however imperfect, for the Holy Spirit to cause the growth. I move forward in faith anyway.  I am compelled. 

The pattern of life evidence -> shift in desire - compelled -> Encounter - Software Engineer, AI -> Coach-therapeutic gap w/ AI -> Encounter, Business owner w/ adjacent problem - RPA -> Theme of Assembly - same answer -> Encounter - Encouragement from a Coach -> Inner Resistance - CIC tool victory -> Video ministry encouragement -> Wife receives job offer (perfect) -> Shift in mindset to Spirit/Prayer -> 



